[MUSIC]
Stanford University
>> Hi, everyone.
Welcome to the midterm of this session for
CS224N.
I'm just gonna start
with some announcements.
So the first one, as I hope you're
aware of, homework 2 is due today.
And we had an issue with
the submissions script
that made submissions unavailable for
a couple hours.
So we apologize for that,
but that is now fixed.
There's a slight change to the submission
instructions to the initial version.
And that is we don't want you to
include the trained weights for
your models, because it turns out,
that takes up a lot of space.
And we run out of AFS, and
we can't take any more submissions.
So we apologize for that inconvenience.
The other thing due today
is the project proposal, so
these are both due at midnight.
And we are saying that if you have not yet
found a mentor, but
you would still like to do a final project
other than the default final project,
you can still submit a project proposal.
And say,
that you've not found a mentor yet, and
we would do our best to find you a mentor,
anyway.
Now, for a couple of notes on the midterm.
So the midterm is Tuesday.
Same time as the regular lecture, but
I want to point out that
it’s not being held here.
It’s being held in Memorial Auditorium.
There is an alternate exam only if you
cannot at all make the February 14th,
is normal midterm time.
And if you want to take
the alternative exam,
or you have to take the alternative exam,
I'll post about that on Piazza.
We are allowing a single cheat sheet.
And the material on this midterm
is all the lectures including
the most recent one.
The midterm is gonna be a mix of multiple
choice, and true/false questions,
short answer questions,
and some longer more involved questions
that may involve radiant computation.
And for SCPD students,
you have to turn up in person,
or have an exam monitor pre-registered.
The rest of this lecture is going
to be just review material to help
prepare you for the midterm.
And in particular, we're going to
cover word vector representations,
neural network basics,
back propagation and gradient computation.
And we're gonna do some example problems
on the white board for that section,
RNNs and Dependency Parsing.
And with that,
I will leave it to our first section,
Word Vector Representations.
All right, we can start that again.
So what are word vectors?
For every word,
we could come up with a vector that
encapsulates semantic
information about the word.
There could be various ways of
interpreting what meaning or
semantic representation could be.
And which is why it so
severely depends on how you actually
go about training your word vectors.
In this class,
we first covered word2vec and GloVe, and
we'll be reviewing that now.
So just to recap, Word2Vec,
the task for it is,
learn word vectors to encode the
probability of a word given its context.
Now, consider this example,
our window size is 2 here.
I understand the Word2Vec model now.
If you consider the center word to
be Word2Vec, understand the and
model now become context words.
And you'll see how to
probabilistically model this now.
So for each work, we have two vectors.
The input vector and the output vector,
then for vectors represented by v and
the output vector by u.
And we'll see how v and
u are used in the model now.
So we'll be covering two algorithms here,
Skipgram,
which predicts the probability of
the context words given the center word.
And the Continuous Bag-of-Words, or CBOW,
which predicts the center word
from surrounding context.
All right, so to recap on Skipgram,
consider the sentence again where I
understand the Word2Vec model now.
And in this case,
since the center word is Word2Vec,
that'll be the only word that's left,
and the context words will be omitted.
And our job is to actually go about and
assign probably the words there.
So, how do we go about doing this?
We first generate a one-hot vector.
In this case, this vector will have the
same dimensions as the number of words in
a vocabulary, with one of the index of
the word Word2Vec, and 0 everywhere else.
Now, we need to use this one-hot vector
to index into over embedding matrix,
which is capital V,
the input vector in embedding matrix.
And we looked in a word vector
corresponding to that word.
We then go and do a doc product
with the output word vectors hue,
and to generate a score for it.
So far, so good.
Any questions?
So once we get a score,
we get the probabilities by using Softmax.
And once we have those, we have Softmax
probabilities for every context word.
And we can then find out which
word actually would go into these
context windows.
How do we actually go about training this?
We assign over a cost, which is either
given by Softmax cross-entropy, or
the negative sampling loss.
And as you can see,
the formula takes abstracts or
the cost function over there.
So we take the input vector, and we take
the word vector for the context words,
and we apply these cost functions and
sum them over, okay?
And our job is to minimize this loss.
I'm using cost and loss interchangeably,
as we will do that in the midterm
in the class as well.
That is Skipgram.
Now, we move onto Continuous Bag Of Words,
CBOW.
Now, let's take the previous
sentence again.
I understand the Word2Vec model now.
In this case, our job is to
actually predict the context word,
or the center word, my bad,
given the context words.
So in this case, our job would be to
actually guess the Word2Vec model here.
So in this case, as in the previous case
as well, we generate one-hot vectors for
each of the context words.
And this would, again,
be the size of your vocabulary with
one at the index of the word itself.
And then we look into our
embedding matrix, again, the input
vector embedding matrix, and obtain
the word vectors for those context words.
We take the average of those word vectors,
and then compute the score again by
multiplying with the output vector matrix.
Now, that we have the scores,
we can get the probabilities by
computing the Softmax function.
And now, we have for
each of the words in the vocabulary.
We have the probability assigned that what
how likely it is to be the center word.
All clear so far?
This should be pretty clear since we
also had a live coding session on this.
Sweet.
The cost function here is similar to
the one in Skipgram except, in this case,
it takes in the average of the word
vectors as one of the arguments and
the center word itself.
And again,
our job is to minimize the loss here.
Sweet.
We didn't do this as a part
of the assignment, but
GloVe is a pretty famous set
of word vectors, as well.
Like Word2Vec, it also captures
semantic information about the words.
But unlike Word2Vec,
however, it also takes into account
the co-occurence statistics.
And we'll see what we
refer to just in a second.
From one of the lines in our review notes,
GloVe consists of a weighted
least squared model that trains on
global word co-occurrence accounts.
So what do we mean by co-occurence?
Consider our corpus to be only
a set of three sentences.
I like deep learning.
I like NLP and I enjoy flying.
Now, you can see that we can come
up with a n by n where n represents
the number of words in our corpus.
A matrix where each index
corresponds to whether word GA
belongs in the context window of word I,
okay?
This is a symmetric matrix as well.
So you can, as you can assume.
The ordering does not matter.
So let us denote this matrix by x.
And so if you index into this using -ing,
that would be the number of times word
j occurs in the context of word i.
And let us also denote xi to be
the number of times any word
appears in the context window of a word i.
Just like in Word2Vec,
we also have two vectors for
each word here, the input vector and
the output vector.
And the cost function is
given by the equation here.
There are a couple of interesting things
about this cost function which we'll cover
right in a second.
But a few things to note here,
we're applying the least squares
as we mentioned earlier.
We are iterating over every pair of
words in the co-occurrence matrix.
What's interesting is that since you can
imagine words like d or a, the articles
as the stock words would have a large xij
value, we need to sort of clip on it.
And the other option is to
just take the logarithm of it.
And so which is why you can see there's
a log over the xij over there, okay?
So any questions about
the cost function here?
Okay, let's move on then.
So now, after minimizing this loss for the
GloVe word vectors, they will be having
V and U, where V represents the output
word vectors and U represents the input.
And since both of these capture
similar co-occurrence information,
we can obtain the word vector for
a single word just by summing them up.
So just U plus V will equal the word
vector for that particular word.
And we can use that for
all sorts of NLP tasks.
It's essentially an embedding for
that word.
So before we move on from
word vector presentations,
any questions on any of the terminology?
We got a lot of questions about how does
an embedding defer from a word vector.
We want to make sure that that
definitions ambiguity is cleared up.
Yes, please.
It is a vector, I mean it is a scalar.
Yes, the question was.
If Xi is a vector, shouldn't the laws
actually be referring to a scalar?
Xi is actually a scalar because it's
solely the number of times that word
appears in the context
window of any other word.
So Xi is defined as the number of times
any word key appears in the context,
so it's not a vector.
Yes.
Most research papers tend
to use embeddings and
word vectors pretty interchangeably.
Basically, you can imagine it's a a vector
that encapsulates semantic information.
So in terms of analogies, you can
imagine that if you had word vectors for
king, man, queen, and woman,
then if you subtract king minus queen,
it should be roughly equal into
man minus woman, for example.
Sweet, any other questions?
Yes.
So those input vectors and output vectors
are solely just differing in the sense
that, if you have a context word, we are
going to predict the output vector for it.
So in any case,
you're considering a word solely,
you're considering only
the output vectors.
Okay, all right, so
let's cover neural networks.
This will be roughly quick because we
also have RNNs and LSTMs to cover.
So coming back to the basics,
you have a data set x and
y where x is the input, y are the labels.
And you want to train a 1-hidden
layer neural network on this.
You do a forward pass given by xW + b,
and then you apply non-linearity or
a activation function on it.
You compute the loss,
you compute the gradients from
that loss using back propagation.
We'll go into back
propagation with Barack.
Then we update the weight using
an optimization algorithm like
saccustic gradient descent, or SGD.
We do hyperparameter tuning of Dev set,
not on the Test set.
And then evaluate the neural network
on the Test set itself, all right?
So this was a very high level of review
of how neural networks have changed.
Let's go where the activation functions
are the nonlinearities quite quickly.
So we have the sigmoid function.
What it does it takes and input and
squashes at between 0 and 1.
However, this has some problems.
If the activation function was very large,
if the activation was very large,
is still always end up being 1?
Or if the activation is really small,
it's still end up always being 0?
So you can imagine that a lot of
neurons get saturated by this.
And the output is not centered as 0.
This is particularly bad,
because if the output for our sigmoid
is always a positive number, then the
gradients are always negative or positive.
And we do not want that, we want
the gradients to be more adaptive, okay?
Another issue, this is also that takes
the exponent and it's computationally
expensive, but nothing in here
can run with the map there.
Okay, then the tan h function,
[INAUDIBLE] an input squashes
at between negative 1 and 1.
Here, in this case, the output is centered
at 0 so which is a nice thing, and
it sort of resolves
the problem that sigmoid had.
However, similar to a sigmoid, this
also kills the gradients at saturation.
And which is why tan h
is not as good as well.
Yes?
Right, so if your input,
if the output of your node.
The question was, why is it bad
that the output of our activation
function is is not centered at 0?
So if the output of your activation
function is always positive,
then the gradients are always positive or
always negative,
because they can only go in one
of the two directions, always.
Yes.
They do break the, so we are able to
train networks with this function.
So it's not like it's the end of the world
in terms of training neutral networks.
So in this case, what would actually be
better is that you take your input and
you center it at zero, either way works.
Moving on to ReLU,
the Rectify Linear Unit,
which essentially takes some acts
on checks if it's greater than 0.
If it's greater than 0,
it returns the same value.
It does not have the problem of
saturation because it's linear.
It's confidentially cheap,
there are no explain on calculations.
And it's also empirically known
to converge faster, right?
Yes?
Yeah, so that is an error.
So which is why I have the second point
in the problem says referring to that.
Yeah, so the problem with this is
that it's again, not centered at 0.
The larger problem with this, and
it's slightly annoying as well,
is that if the input is less than 0,
then the ReLU gradient is always 0.
And this is a problem because once
a neuron dies, it always is dead.
You can never revive a neuron after
the input becomes less than 0.
Sad times, I know.
Anyways, moving on to stochastic gradient
descent or the optimization algorithm.
In this case, theta represents
our weights or the parameters.
Alpha is our learning rate and
J is our loss or the cost function.
And going very technically, SGD update
happens after every training example.
However, researchers tend
to abuse the notation and
call minibatch SGD also normal SGD.
And what minibatch stochastic
gradient descent does,
is it takes a small batch of
training examples at once and
averages their loss over before
performing the gradient update.
Okay, moving on to regularization,
this is a form,
dropout is a form of regularization.
And it randomly drops neurons
at forward pass during training.
While this might seem very
counterintuitive that it should work,
it does because it prevents overfitting.
It forces the network
to learn dependencies.
When you have fewer number of
neurons to learn the same task,
it forces each neuron to capture more
important information about your data and
learn more important abstractions.
So think about dropout as
training an ensemble of networks.
Every time you run your
network during forward pass,
a couple of neurons are dropped.
And as a result, you are getting
a new network almost every time and
then you're training
an ensemble of networks.
During test time, make sure that you
turn your dropout also that you again
take this ensemble of networks and
then use the shared power
between all of these networks.
Any questions on dropout?
Yes.
So it depends.
If you make sure that.
So the question was do you have to
scale your output whenever you run
dropout at tester?
And the answer to that is no.
And just because if during test time
you make sure that your activations
are already scaled correctly, then you
don't have to do it during test time.
So, a few training tips and tricks here.
These are a couple of loss plots.
So the one in the green represents
a phenomenon when your loss is very noisy.
And what happens,
you can see the jagged line.
And in this case,
what must be happening is that since your
gradient updates are very large,
you are not converging properly.
You are almost iterating over and
around the local minima,
which is why it's advisable to lower
your learning rate in that case.
If it's blue,
you see that there is high potential for
your network to actually train faster.
And hence,
you should make your learning rate higher.
Okay?
The red line is sort of an ideal one.
Again, this is something
I just drew up on Paint.
So it's not something
that's very technical.
It's just intuition.
All right.
So this is something you must have faced
issues with in the last assignment.
Where if the gap between your training
curve and your dev accuracy is very large,
that means you're overfitting.
And in this case, there are a couple
of ways you can actually counter that.
One is by increasing your
regularization constant.
This could be by increasing
your dropout rate or
by increasing the L2 Norm rate, okay?
And again, this is very
important to stress that do not
test your model in the test set before
you're done resolving overfitting issue.
It almost sort of breaks the scientific
pipeline if you test your network on
the test set and
then tweak your parameters,
because you're not supposed
to look at the test set.
So the question was, if you're not
supposed to test them on the test set,
then what kind of data are you
suppose to test it on?
And the answer to that is you can
divide your data into three parts.
Training, dev, and test.
You train on the train.
You evaluate regularly on the dev set.
And then, finally at the very end,
test on the test set, okay?
With that, I'll leave you to Barak for
Backpropagation and Gradients.
>> All right, hi everyone.
It's another bright and
sunny day to do some backpropagation.
I mean, cold and rainy.
I think it's also pretty ironic that
last time I spoke to you from here,
I told you about all of the wonderful
things that TensorFlow can do
with automatic differentiation, and here
we are again computing gradients by hand.
But anyway, so
the main ideas of this part of the review
is to go over some of the intuition and
the math behind backpropogation,
as well as how to use it in practice.
Before I begin, I highly urge you to check
out Kevin's notes on gradient computation,
as well as some of the principles
behind like matrix calculus.
I think it's very helpful to understand
what's on those notes to help
you the most with the midterm.
Okay, so our itinerary is to first
review what backpropagation is,
then to have a quick chat
about matrix calculus.
Then, we're gonna talk about how to
compute products of gradients correctly.
In other words,
when do I transpose my darn symbols?
And then,
we're going to solve two midterm problems.
Okay, so the problem statement that we are
looking at is given some function f with
respect to inputs x and some labels y,
including some parameters theta,
we wanna compute the gradient of your Loss
with respect to all your parameters theta.
And what backpropagation is, it is
an algorithm that allows you to compute
the gradient for some compound function as
a series of local, intermediate gradients.
So if you have some compound function,
backpropogation is the tool that you have
that allows you to compute the total
gradient through an application of
the chain rule to all of the local
intermediate gradients in you function.
So there are three kind of
parts to backpropagation.
The first is that you want to identify
what your intermediate functions are, i.e,
the intermediate variables.
And this is basically done for
you in the forward propagation stage.
You then want to know what the local
gradients are of all of the variables
inside your compound function.
And then you want to somehow combine those
through some application of the chain rule
to get your full gradients.
So the first thing that we need to
talk about is what modularity is and
let us look at is at
an extremely simple example.
We have some function of three
scalar variables x, y, z.
We're going to add x and y and
then multiply that by z.
Our intermediate variable is q,
which is equal to x + y.
And our final compound function is q x z.
So the idea of modularity is to
kind of separate out our smaller
operations such that each level of our
forward propagation, we know how to
complete the gradient of the output
with respect to our inputs of interest.
So the key idea of modularity is
that it allows you separate out
the operations that you're using.
So that at each point,
you're able to calculate the gradient
in some sort of palatable way.
Okay, so, modularity for a neural network
is basically what we've seen in our
assignments so far, in terms of
splitting up our compound function
as a series of all of
our propagation steps.
So in this example of a two-layer
neural network, we have the loss of
some cross-entropy of a sigmoid
activation of some linear function
again applying to linear function over
that and taking the cross-entropy with y.
So intermediate variables are going to
be all the things you're familiar with.
It's going to be our hidden layer,
it's going to be the activaion,
it's going to be our scoring, which is z2
in this example, followed by our Loss.
So the idea is that at each step of this
forward propagation stage we know how to
compute the gradient of our output
with respect to our inputs.
So, let us look at how
the forward propagation and
the backward propagation
relate to each other.
On the left,
we have the forward propagation,
which is where the values from our inputs
are propagated down through our network.
And we're basically computing
the value of our compound function.
What is happening in backward
propagation is basically the reverse
side of the mirror.
Where at each point,
we take the gradient at that level
with respect to the variable above it.
So the last thing that we need to do
to finish off our backpropagation
Is to find out how we're going to merge
all of these local gradients together,
to get our total gradient.
And this is as good a time as ever
to talk about the chain rule.
So the key intuition behind the chain
rule, is that slopes multiply.
So if I'm trying to take the derivative
of some sort of compound function,
f and g, of some input x over that x.
It's going to equal that derivative
of our total function with respect to
the intermediate value.
Times the derivative of
the intermediate value over our inputs.
And this is a bit of a mathematical
wonder, you might think.
It's so
beautiful that if you have two functions.
You can just multiply the slope of
the intermediate by the slope of
the function that happens after that.
So this is kind of the key tool that
allows back propagation to work.
Another useful analogy for
understanding back propagation
is looking at circuit diagrams.
So this is going to be the circuit
diagram of our initial simple example.
We're going to add x and y and
that is our q node over there.
We're going to multiply
that by our z variable.
And that gives us an f.
So the green values in this diagram
represent the forward propagation values.
And the red values represent
the backward propagation.
So looking to the right most.
We start off with an error
value of 1 because trivially,
the derivative of f with
respect to itself is just 1.
What is interesting though is if we look
at the error signal that is happening at
the q node.
It's currently -4 because
the derivative of F with
respect to Q is just going to
be the value of Z minus 4.
We know that the derivative of
Q with respect to X is just 1.
But what we're going to do to get
the total gradient at position x.
Is we're going to multiply that
gradient times our error signal
that is flowing into q.
And this is I guess the key point
of what we're showing here.
And we'll see how this kind of
figure can help us do back propagation
in midterm questions soon.
Okay, are there any questions so far about
this large overview of back propagation,
before we start talking
about matrix calculus.
Great, okay,
moving to some matrix calculus.
So let us first talk about
derivatives over vectors.
So the derivative over a vector is going
to be a matrix of partial derivatives.
Where the derivative of each row is
going to be the derivative of that
index of the output with respect to
all of the indices of your input x.
So for the scalar by vector example,
you're going to get a single vector.
Where each column is going to be the
partial of y by the partial of x at that
particular column index.
In the vector by vector case, we're going
to have the matrix of partial derivatives.
Where each row is the partial
of yi on the ith row by
all of the indices at position x.
The case for
derivatives over matrices, question.
The question was, does the presentation
of the derivatives change with respect to
whether x and y are column vectors?
So a potentially complicated
answer to your question is that
each of these derivatives represents
the Jacobean of that derivative.
That is a matrix that takes as
input whatever shape your x is and
outputs the shape of y.
So if x was a row vector, yes.
The presentation would
actually be transposed.
Yes, question.
So the question was,
are we going to be using the convention
that x is a row or a column?
That depends on the question and
it'll be stated very clearly when you're
taking derivatives in that question, okay.
So the case for derivatives over
matrices is slightly more complicated.
Ad it's complicated for this reason.
You can interpret y as a function.
If I'm trying to compute my partial of y
over my partial of a where y is a scalar.
Y is actually going to be a function of
every single element inside your matrix A.
Okay, so the proper derivative
of partial y over partial
A is actually going to be an element of,
thanks.
It is actually going to
be an element of RMN.
So the true Jacobean derivative
of partial y over partial A is
actually going to be some
long form vector ofsize MN.
But this is not such
a good presentation for
us when we want to do
derivatives of matrices.
So we actually rearrange that sort
of derivative to be some matrix of
derivatives.
Where the partial of y at each index is
going to correspond to the partial of
the index at that position A.
The case for derivatives of vectors
over matrices is even more complicated.
Because the true form derivative of a
derivative over a matrix is actually some
sort of three-dimensional array.
Or it's going to be a tensor that is
sort of beyond the scope of what we're
trying to do here.
So since we're only
interested in computing
gradients of our lost scalars
with respect to matrices.
We can actually hide out that sort of
strange three-dimensional
array derivative thing.
Cuz we're going to be computing it
by some error signal from above.
And let me show you what
that means over here.
So if we're interested in computing
the derivative of z with respect to A.
Let us look at what the derivative
would be of that z with respect to
a single element inside our A matrix.
So you can think of Aij as
representing the sensitivity
of the ith index of the output with
respect to the jth index of the input.
And this is what we're
going to be looking at.
So the derivative at the ith
position of the dz gradient
is going to be exactly
the value of xj in our input x.
Since that is what is modifying the A.
And this leads to the identity
that the partial of j
over the partial of Aij is going
to equal the dot of our delta.
Of our delta gradient flowing
inwards at exactly position i.
Since that is the only
value that is not 0 in our
derivative of z over Aij
times the value at xj.
And this leads to
the identity of dJ by dA.
So you can somewhat ignore the slide and
just focus on the identity for
the purposes of the midterm.
But this might be a bit of
an explanation of what it means to take
sort of derivatives over matrices.
Okay, so on this slide I have,
for your reference.
A list of perhaps the most useful
identities that you'll need for
computing all of the gradients
that we use in our midterms.
And I won't explain this now,
but the slides are online.
So I highly urge you to check these out or
to check them in the notes.
So are there any questions
before we move onwards?
Awesome, okay.
So one thing that you might
notice from the previous slides.
Is that the nice thing of taking
derivatives of scalars over vectors or
matrices.
Is that the shape of our output has
the same dimensions as the shape of our
inputs.
Both in the scalar-by-vector case and
the scalar-by-matrix case.
So what we enforce when we do back
propagation is this shape rule.
Where when you take the gradients
against a scalar which is what you're
essentially always doing.
The gradients at each intermediate step
have the shape of your denominator.
So if X, whether it's a row vector, column
vector, or matrix, has shape m by n.
The error signal of d scalar [INAUDIBLE]
loss by dx is equal to the same
size as our denominator And what this
allows us to do is dimension balancing.
So this is going to be
the general gradients for
any sort of matrix multiplication you
do on any gradient question where X and
W Can be either both matrices, or
X can be a row vector and W a matrix, or
X can be a matrix and W a column vector,
so this is a general form.
So if Z is going to be some m times w
matrix, and we represent the error at
that point as partial Loss
over partial Z as being delta,
that because of our shape rule,
we know has shape m times w.
How do we find out what
the dimension of our d Loss by d X?
Well, if we are looking for
a gradient of shape m times n,
and we know we're going to be
multiplying our gradient signal by W,
using our identities
from the previous slide.
Then we realize that we need to take
the transpose of W so that the W is on
the left side and the delta is, and
the W is on the right side of the delta.
So you can kind of solve
these identities by looking
at the dimensions of all of your terms,
and
making sure they balance out to give you
the correct dimensions for the gradients.
By matching the gradients of
your error and the gradient,
the dimensions of your gradient and
the dimensions of your term.
Are there any questions about this
dimension and balancing concept?
The questions was, what is delta?
Delta is going to be the error
signal at the point of Z.
So since we're trying to compute the
gradient of the loss with respect to X,
and the level above that,
the intermediate level above that is Z.
To apply the chain rule,
we're going to have delta represent
the derivative up to the point Z.
And we're going to multiply that as
an application of our chain rule
with the derivative of
Z with respect to X.
So the idea whenever we're,
if I'm starting with some Z as
a matrix multiplication of X and
W, and I want to know what my
derivative of Loss, With respect to W is.
Using the chain rule, I know that
that's the derivative of the Loss
with respect to Z times
the derivative of Z with respect to W.
So this is going to be our intermediate
variable that we're taking our
local gradient of.
And we know what the derivative
of this with respect to this is.
But this is going to give us
the error signal up to that point.
The error signal records what
the value of the error is up to
the point of this intermediate
computation, okay?
The error signal is kind of what
the gradient is up to the point of your
equation, of the Loss down to the last
variable that you're looking at,
which is the output of that expression,
okay.
All right, so it kind of feels like
dimension balancing is this kinda cheap
and dirty approach to doing
gradient calculations.
But they are indeed kind of the most
efficient tool that you have to computing
gradients quickly in most practical
settings, and especially the midterm.
But I do encourage you to read
the gradient computation notes
if you want to understand how
the gradients work from first principle.
The last thing that I wanna talk
about is how gradients over
activation functions work.
So one of the questions that we
fielded frequently in office hours is,
why is it the case that when you're taking
gradients over an activation function,
you're doing this element-wise
multiplication or Hadamard product?
And the answer to that is, if you're
looking at, so the answer to that is
the activation function is a function
that maps a scalar to another scalar.
Though we represent z as a vector
as a sigmoid of an entire vector h,
the sigmoid is actually being applied to
each individual element in that vector,
which maps the same index in your output.
So the way we represent the true gradient,
the true derivative,
is that it's going to
be a diagonal matrix.
Where each index on your leading
diagonal is going to be the gradient
of the ith index of your input.
And multiplying some matrix or
vector by a diagonal matrix
is equivalent to doing the element-wise
multiplication of a vector itself.
Which we represent and
the Hadamard product.
Okay, are there any questions
about what we've discussed so
far before we get to
some midterm problems?
Yes,
If you go back to this slide,
where this is the true, sorry.
This is the true Jacobian form
of the partial of some y vector,
with respect to x, you can see that
it's a matrix that takes as input,
a column vector x, and
maps it to an output y.
So if the shape of your
Jacobian takes as an input,
something with shape x and maps to
an output something with a shape y,
which is exactly what is happening
in the top left box over here.
Can we talk about that question maybe
after the lecture, so we can move on?
Cuz we have a few more sections.
Okay, so let's get through, and
maybe when we actually do some midterm
problems it'll become more
apparent how it works.
Okay, so the first question that we're
going to look at is to do with Siamese
networks.
And, a Siamese network basically allows
you to compute a similarity metric
between two inputs x,
between an x1 and some x2 inputs.
And this allows you to sort of compare
the similarity of two word vectors or
two sentences.
So the first thing that I like to do when
we're starting some gradient problem,
Is to draw a graph of how our
variables are related to each other.
So we can see is we start off with some J,
at the top we have our cost function J.
It takes as input an h1 and
an h2 as two hidden vectors.
These are activations of z1 and z2.
And I am defining these variables myself,
so I need to specify what they are.
And this is going to be, in this problem,
we're treating our inputs
as column vectors.
And for
z2 it's going to equal to x2 plus b.
So we have two inputs, x1 and x2.
And one interesting thing to notice about
Siamese networks is that the variables,
sorry the parameters, W and b Are shared
across both of these activations.
So if we're interested in taking
the derivative of J with respect to W,
we need to add the derivatives
coming from both branches down.
So the first thing that I like to do when
I'm computing my gradients, is basically,
to express this graph, and we'll see
how it's useful to us in a second.
Okay, can the camera see me, awesome.
So if we want to start our
gradient computations,
the first thing we want to do is to
take the derivative with respect to J.
So let me write out what
my J is going to be.
It's going to be half of the Hadamard,
I'm sorry, the Frobenius norm
of h1 minus h2 squared f.
And we're going to have
a regularization term.
So this is, I'm first writing out
what my cost function is going to be.
And I use this graph to kind of inform me
about where I'm taking my derivatives and
what my error signals are going to be.
So the first thing I wanna
find out if I wanna compute,
what is the derivative of J,
with respect to W.
This is what I'm interested in.
So the first thing we're going
to do is flow down this branch.
So we're going to compute
the partial of J with respect to
the partial of h1, and I'll leave this for
you to show on your own time,
what the derivative over
the Frobenius norm is.
But it's basically just going to be
h1- h2, cuz the 2 cancels out and
you're left with an h1- h2 term.
Equivalently, the gradient
with respect to h2 is
just going to be the negative
of that expression, okay?
So one thing that I like to do,
is to also record what the dimensions
are of all of my gradients.
So over here,
since we're dealing with column vectors,
this is going to remain an m by 1 vector.
And this is going to be
an m by 1 vector as well.
And the other thing I'm going to do is
give a name to these error signals.
This one is going to be delta 1,
and this one is delta 2.
And what is nice to represent
using this graph is what my
error signals are flowing down it.
So over here I've defined delta 1 to be
the partial of J with respect to partial
of h1.
And over here we have delta 2 being the
partial of J over the partial of h2, okay?
So the next thing we are interested in
computing is what is the derivative
of J with respect to z1?
So we're going to apply our chain rule.
We know what the derivative of J with
respect to h1 is, so we only, sorry,
we want to compute the derivate
of J with respect to z1.
We know what the derivative of
J with respect to h1 is, so
we only need to compute the derivative
of h1 with respect to z1.
So, over here we have a sigmoid
activation function, so
we just need to compute
the gradient over that.
So my partial of J over
the partial of z1 is going to
equal partial of J by partial of h1 times
the partial of h1 by the partial of z1.
And that is equal to my first error
signal with the Hadamard product of, this
is getting a bit tight here,
it's going to equal
my error signal Hadamard
product with h1 times 1- h1.
Which, as we know from assignment one,
is the derivative of the sigmoid.
I'm running out of space here.
Let me move over here.
I hope it doesn't get shadowed.
Similarly, the partial of J
with respect to z2 is equal to
the partial of J by the partial of h2
times the partial of h2 by partial of z2.
And that's also going to equal our
current error signal flowing down to h2,
so it's delta 2 Hadamard
product with h2 times 1- h2.
And we're gonna give this a name.
This is now going to be delta 4 and
this one is going to be delta 3.
Okay, so over here we have delta 3 and
here delta 4, okay?
So now the last thing that we wanna do if
we wanna compute the gradient of J with
respect to w, This is going to
equal my error signal up to z1,
so partial of J by partial of z1 times
the partial of z1 by the partial of w.
It's also going to, and we're going to
add to that what's happening in the error
signal at the other branch.
That's partial of J by partial of z2 by
the partial of z2 over the partial of w.
Plus we don't want to forget about
our regularization experiment.
The partial of lambda over 2,
Frobenius norm of w by w, okay.
And this is going to, now,
we need to do some matrix balancing,
using what we discussed earlier.
Since we're taking the derivative
over this matrix product over here.
So what we need to do is, we want this
final product of each of these things,
to have the same shape as w.
So w is an m by n matrix, and
this is just given to you in the problem.
We know that delta 3 and
delta 4 are m by 1.
Why?
Because when we computed our delta 3 and
delta 4 we just took the elementwise
product of whatever was up here, so
it's still going to remain m times 1.
Finally, we know that x1 and
x2 are both n by 1,
since they are column vectors.
So if we want to,
we know that this is delta 3 and
we're going to have to multiply
it by the xs in some way.
So we see that if we want
our final to be m times n,
we're gonna have to do this expression
times the transpose of this.
So this is equal to the delta
3 times w1 transpose.
Plus delta 2, sorry, delta 4 times, sorry,
Delta 3 times x1 transpose +
delta 4 times x2 transpose.
And finally,
we want to add this expression.
And again, I will leave this for you to
show on your own time that the derivative
of this Frobenius norm,
the 2 cancels out with this.
And you're just left with lambda w, okay?
Yes?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> So the question was,
what happens if you run into some
sort of ambiguity over here.
So the nice thing about when we're,
since, at least for
computing the neural network models that
we are looking at for the midterm, and.
The only tractable problems that we're
going to be computing gradients over
are things like linear transformations and
activations over those,
which are already the key operations
that you use in neural networks.
Apart from things like cross entropies and
other losses at the top.
So in most of those situations you
won't really run into ambiguities.
And when you do, you just go back
to deriving things using like,
Traditional matrix calculus,
so you just dig deeper.
Like if you dug deeper into
how these dimensions work out,
it should still work out.
So you just won't find ambiguities
in these types of problems, okay.
I will quickly run through
my second example.
Okay.
Okay, so
the next example that we are looking at.
Suppose, you wanted to build a word vector
representation that you, and couldn't
decide whether you wanted to have a hidden
layer that is activated by a sigmoid.
Or you cannot decide whether you wanted a
hidden layer that is activated by a ReLU.
So the only thing better than making
a choice is to do both of them.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to have a network, Where at the top,
we're going to have a cross entropy over
some prediction y, that takes n from z3.
So over here,
we're going to have some input that
flows through both of these variables.
So here, we have xW1 + b1.
So we're going to apply a linear
transformation over our input x, and
then sigmoid activate it to
produce this hidden layer.
Over here, we're going to have
a different linear transformation with
two other parameters,
two other matrix and BIOS term.
But here, we're going to ReLU activate it.
Then we're going to add our h1 and h2.
At z3, we're going to,
Guess our score vector which is z3, and
then we apply the cross entropy to that,
okay?
That's your model.
It's like are the word vector
representation we did in assignment one
except now, we have two branches
that take the input twice.
So what we want to compute at least for
this question is what is the partial
of J with respect to X, okay?
So the nice thing about this problem
is that we already know how to compute
the derivative of our
J with respect to z3.
Since z3 is the input into our cross
entropy, and we did this in our homework.
So the partial of J with respect to z3
is just going to equal to y hat minus y,
as we already know.
And this is going to
be our first r signal.
So we already know what the errors
from J flowing down to z3.
And we're calling that delta 1, okay?
The next thing we see is that
the partial of z3 with respect to h1 and
h2 are actually equivalent.
Cuz if we know what the partial of
z3 is with respect to this sum,
since the gradients of h1 + h2,
with respect to h1 is just 1.
And similarly, with h2, we can simply
write down the partial of J with respect
to h1 is equal to the partial of J
with respect to, sorry, partial of h2.
Which is equal to
the partial of J up to z3
times the partial of z3
over partial of h1 + h2.
And what we need to do here is again,
some matrix balancing.
Since we know that h is
a [1 x m] row vector.
And I forgot to specify, but
this is actually pretty crucial, and
this is the next slide.
I did convert this problem into the exact
same model except using row vectors.
Just to show you that the way we do
dimension balancing in a row vector
versus a column vector situation
is basically exactly the same.
So we have h being 1 times m.
And our W3 is m times k, is m by k.
Our delta 1 is also 1 value K.
So what we can see is that if we wanted to
multiply our error signal from above by
what we know is going to be the derivative
with respect to h1 + h2, we're
going to need to transpose our W3, and
multiply our delta 1 by that transpose.
So going up here,
I'll just write an equal sign.
This is,
I'm continuing this line over here.
That is just equal to
delta 1 by W3 transpose.
And I'm going to call this delta 2.
And then I'm going to fill in my error
gradient flowing down here, okay?
Moving over to this side,
if we wanna move down the branches,
we now wanna compute the derivative
of J with respect to z1 and z2.
So the partial of J with respect to z1
is equal to the partial of J up to h1.
There's a partial of h1 up to z1, and
that's just going to equal since this
is an activation, this is a gradient
over an activation function, we again,
use our elements y as multiplication,
so that's just equal to delta 2.
By since on the left branch,
we're doing a sigmoid,
we're going to have just
h1 times 1 minus h1.
And on the other side, our partial
of J with respect to partial of z2.
And I'll just skip writing out,
I won't write out the chain rule for
the sake of time.
That's going to equal our delta 2 by
the gradient of the ReLU
activation function which is 1.
If our z2 is greater than 0 based
on the value as we it saw earlier.
And we're going to call this,
delta 3, and this, delta 4.
So I'm gonna fill in
the deltas in my graph, okay?
Awesome.
So the last thing we're gonna do, and
I'm again, running out of space,
Is to compute the gradients with respect
to x, which is what what we wanna do.
So the partial of J with respect
to x is going to equal the partial
of J up to z1 times the partial of z1,
respect to x.
Plus since we're working with our
derivatives x appears in both branches,
it's going to equal the partial
of J with the respect to z2,
partial of z2 with respect to x, okay?
And what we're gonna do is
matrix bouncing one more,
since we're taking derivatives
over a linear transformation.
So we wanna make sure our
dimensions balance out.
So we know from the problem
statement that x is a row vector.
So it's [1 x n], okay?
All right, W1, W2 are by n by m,
and that's just given from
the problem formulation.
So, since x is [1 x n] and,
We're gonna need to compute,
we're gonna need to multiply our error
signals by this being transposed.
Since we want the n to appear
on the right hand side.
And although,
I didn't write over here you can see,
you can prove to yourself that delta 3 and
delta 4 are 1 by m.
So this final expression,
and going down here.
Since we need to transpose this,
it's going to be the error
gradient up to this point.
So delta 3 times our W1 transpose,
since W1 appears on the left side,
plus the error signal delta
4 times W2 transpose.
Okay, I know this is a little
bit long winded, but
the general approach that we're using is
to first of all, build the graph of our
variables Starting from J,
we compute the derivative going down and
at each point, we mark what the error
signal is up to that point.
After that, we apply our chain rule,
where we compute the derivative of our
current variable times our
new thing going down, and
we multiply that by our error
signal coming from above.
And we use matrix balancing to
make sure our products work out.
Are there any questions.
Yes.
I would say yes,
since it helps you keep track,
it helps to keep track of
derivatives up to a certain point.
And it also helps you if you can
just take my current error signal,
specify what the dimensions of that are.
It's very easy to make sure that
your dimensions balance out,
when you compute my error signal
by what follows afterwards.
I mean, you don't have to,
but it certainly is a way.
Of keeping your calculations clean and
organized.
For the sake of time I'm going
to move on to the next section,
but we can take all questions
about back log after the lecture.
So my last slide, and
you can look this up later.
Your menu for success, I recommend doing
all of them, is to write down your graph,
compute the derivatives from the top down,
keep track of your error signals,
and force that the dimensions balance out.
And yes, that is it, thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Cool.
Hi everyone.
So our men are probably some
of the coolest architectures that
you've learned in this class, and and
I may have the pleasure unrolling
them a little bit further for you.
So cool.
So let's time write in to it,
we'll also share some material
questions from past exams.
So here, you now have a distributed
representation of each patient note.
You assume that a patient's past
medical history is informative
of their current illness.
As such, you apply a recurrent neural
network to predict the current
illness based on a patient's current,
and previous note-vectors.
You also explain why
a recurrent neural network
would be better than
a feed-forward network,
in which your input is summation or
average of past and current note-vectors.
So you can talk to your neighbors, just
like take a minute to discuss this problem
and figure out why an RNN would actually
be better than a feed-forward one.
Great, are there any suggestions?
Are there any suggestions, to why our RNN
might be better than feed-forward ones?
I'll try to repeat what you just said,
you can correct me if I'm wrong.
So you said that the RNNs,
they can do something specific for
a particular patient, and
while if you sum them up they wouldn't.
Okay.
And thanks.
Are there any other suggestions as well?
Mm-hm, and so what you just said, and
again, you can correct me if I'm wrong,
is that the more recent information about
this patient might be more relevant.
And that is something that
an RNN could capture,
which a feed network might
not be able to capture.
Mm-hm.
Yeah, so what I just said right now is
that, and there is some time dependency in
this data, since we have
a sequence of a patient notes.
And if we were to sum them up together,
we lose that temporal information.
And so these are all very good answers.
And I do want to comment
just on the first answer,
I think there might have been
a slight misunderstanding.
So we are not summing up
across different patients.
I'm summing across the nodes for
the same patient across time stubs.
And I think that was probably just like
maybe it wasn't phase super clearly.
And what the other people said was and
also correct.
So one thing is that RNNs can take in
more recent information into account.
And in a more general sense, they can take
in temporal relationships into account,
which we would ignore by summing up or
arching over them.
Very nice.
Cool, so in order for us to see this more,
yes, there's a question?
The question was on what advantage
would an RNN give us over taking
a weighted average.
Often note-vectors, well if you do,
weighted average we actually had
to come up with the weights for
on the particular notes, which we
actually don't really know beforehand.
And the idea of like chaining an RNN here,
is that like
the RNN might potentially be able to
learn to what extent it should take in.
Really old notes into account versus
perhaps like more recent ones, so
we don't want to predefine those weights.
Does that make sense?
And we can also talk about
that after class as well.
Great.
So let us take a really quick look at
the RNN structure.
So this is a very simple vanilla RNN.
They key points are the weights
are shared across timesteps.
We also call them oftentimes tied.
And the core of an RNN
is the hidden state, and
the hidden state depends both on
that previous hidden state, so
kind of like capture some of that memory
from earlier as well as the new input,
and that back propagation RNN
happens across all timesteps.
And you should have seen
that on the assignment two.
And RNNs because of their architecture
are very suitable for learning
representations for sequential data,
that has sometimes temporal relationships.
And the predictions can be
made at every timesteps, so
you can have a y as can be
seen in this figure over here.
You can make a prediction every timestep
or you can make can at the end of
the sequence, depending on whatever
your application might be.
So in our key, RNN's come to use
a special when we do language modelling.
So language modelling is the tasks of
computing probability distributions
over a sequence of words, so that can
be for example seconds or a document.
And language modeling is very important,
when we are doing things like speech
recognition, text summariztion and so on.
So in an RNN, when we want to
use it as a language model,
would be passing at every time subsidy
inputs Xt, are our word embeddings.
And you could use word embeddings, for
example, that you produce with word and
[INAUDIBLE] or glove.
So you pass it at every timestep.
And our prediction is just
the next word in the sequence.
So we can use that as our task
in order to train this RNN.
And the idea is that the hidden
representation at the end.
So if you take the hidden representation
at the last time stamp, on our trained
RNN, capture some of the semantic meaning
of that sentence or sequence of words.
So that can be, for example, used for
translation, which is something you saw,
or you saw on Tuesday I think,
which Richard presented.
So here, this is actually a [INAUDIBLE]
RNN which have an encoding part and
a decoding part.
So for the encoding part,
that's your first RNN.
You feed in the word embeddings for
the German words, so [FOREIGN].
And then you pass in that hidden
representation which captures the meaning
of the sentence into the second RNN.
So the weights are shared
across the first RNN, and
they're shared within the second RNN.
And a second RNN is a decoder which
produces the English sentence here.
So this is one example of using this
type of RNN as a language model for
a translation.
Okay, so the problem though with
the vanilla RNNs is that we can see
the problem vanishing gradients.
In back propagation,
when we do back propagation RNNs,
there is a recursive gradient
call on the hidden layer.
And so that's basically since we define
a hidden layer in terms of its P
precedent layer.
And the magnitude of the gradients off
the typical activation functions that
we'd use, like ton H or sigmoid
are between 0 and 1, which causes, and
if you multiply a number that's
smaller than 1 multiple times,
what happens is that the number
will shrink very quickly.
And if it shrinks very quickly,
essentially what happens is that you
final, gradient will be close to 0.
And if your gradients are close to 0,
then essentially means that you're
not updating your parameters.
And that also just means that
your RNNs don't really learn.
So in order to address this issue, this
is like why people have worked on many
of the different architectures and GRUs,
LSTMs were some of the more popular ones.
Yes, there's a question?
Okay, I should also repeat the question.
So the question was, can we adjust
the vanishing gradient problem by using
a different activation function,
something like a volume?
Yeah, okay, sorry.
And your second part was what?
Yeah, we can also discuss
this after class, too.
Yeah, and so good question there.
Okay, so GRUs and LSTMs to the rescue.
So I'll talk briefly about GRUs,
Gated Recurrent Units.
So the addition here is that
we are introducing gate.
So we have a reset gate,
and an update gate.
And you can intuitively understand
these gates as they're controlling
the long term and short term dependencies.
To what extent we want to
memorize things from the past?
And to what extent to we just want to
take something from the current input?
And that might be also something
that you might see or like.
It's related to what we talked
about with patient notes.
It's kind of this network might be able
to learn whether I should only look at
the last patient note, or whether I should
take like the entire history into account?
So and this is a more visual
representation of a GRU games.
So you can see that the input,
X team over here,
is fed into both of these gates,
which are sigmoid functions.
And it's also fed into this other one,
which calculates H tilde.
So this is Kind of a first initial
hidden state, but in order to decide
whether we really want to use it,
we are using the z factor over here,
to decide whether we just want to
use the previous hidden state, or
if you want to update it to the H tilde,
And
this might also be a picture if
you wanted to look at it again.
It's on our blog, so
you can just try to figure out how
this information is flowing and there.
But in order to just get some more
intuitive understanding of how GRU works,
we are going to do some
exercises together.
So first,
try to figure out what the dimensions
are off the ws and the u matrices in here.
And you can write it in terms of the x,
dimension of x and the h,
which is the dimension of h.
Again, you can just take a minute and
try to figure that out.
And you can also discuss
again with your neighbor.
Since we are running a little bit out
of time, I'm just gonna go ahead and
explain how I would approach this problem.
So first, you know that ht,
the hidden vector h has
dimensioin h just by definition.
So I'll write a little bit bigger, okay.
So this is just by definition,
and we also know that
ht minus 1 was also has mentioned dh,
which means 1 minus zt, so
zt itself needs to have to
mention the dh as well, right?
Since we are doing
a aliments bite operation
in the fourth equation over here.
So it also shows us that H tilde,
suggest by looking at the last equation,
H tilde means half dimension dh as well.
And now, that we know that
H tilde has dimension dh,
then we can go into the third
equation over here.
So we know that the product of W and
xc has to give us something with dh.
So that tells us that the matrix W,
Needs to have dimension dh, and dx.
Is this clear to everyone?
Cool, I see a couple nods, okay.
So similarly,
if you look at the matrix u in there,
we know that like the result of u,
ht minus 1 needs to be dh.
Like [INAUDIBLE] so percent should be dh.
And since we're multiplying
it with a hidden vector,
the second dimension should be dh as well.
And you can apply a similar approach
to figure out the dimensionality for
the other matrices as well.
Cool, and true or false question.
If the update gate is close to 0, the net
does not update its state significantly.
Yeah, this one should be pretty obvious
if you look at the fourth equation,
because in that case, you're essentially
just setting ht to ht minus 1.
And this also shows that if the network
learns that zt is pretty close to 0,
that just means that we are essentially
using our input from the first time.
So essentially, this means that your input
from a long time ago still matters a lot
in the future.
Okay another related question, if the
update gate is close to one, and a reset
gate is close to zero, the net remembers
the passing very well, true or false.
Yeah this is actually very
similar to the first question,
so again you can just set them on z
t to 1 r t to 0 in these equations.
And you'll find out that in this case, h t
would depend very strongly on the input,
since we're essentially saying that
this term over here becomes zero.
And we're only using the x t part of it.
Okay, so Joee will now talk about LSTMs.
>> So, I’ll just run through
LSTMs really quickly.
LSTMs are kind of similar to GIUs
except they are a more common model.
So, instead of just having two gates,
now we have multiple gates.
One is the input gate, which decides
how much weight should we give to
the current input or
the current word that we are looking at.
The ft gate or the forget gate will decide
how much we want to forget our past,
how much you want to remember the past or
just forget it.
The new gate ot,
which is a little bit different,
is how much we wanna expose
our current cell to future.
So combine the ot from the current,
combined with the ft from the future
will decide how much all of memory
will be use in any other future node.
So you can see how adjusting this can
decide like whether you just wanna
remember the B minus 3 times 3 but
not, T minus 20 minus 1.
Instead of just going linearly backwards,
I'm having to remember
everything from the past.
So, all these gates are computered using
a Sigmoid because that's between 0 and 1.
And that makes sure that when you
are doing the dot products of, sorry,
the micro dot products, in the end,
you'll have kind of like a probability
distribution of not just completely
forgetting, which would be zero.
Or completely remembering which would one,
but
a fuzzy possibility of remembering
a little bit or forgetting a little bit.
Does that make sense?
Another difference between LSTMs and
GRUs is the ct and ht node, so
now you don't just have one memory,
you have two memories.
And these define different things.
Like the ct would define
exactly what your memory is,
while your ht defines in your it,
ft, and ot, how much or
how you want to remember
the ht minus one memory.
Or how much your memory should
be remembered by the future.
So instead of just having one,
now we have two.
These have a certain number
of disadvantages, for
example there are a lot more parameters
now, which means you need more space.
Which means you need more learning,
and which also means you need
much more training data, so
that your model doesn't start warpening.
And empirically, GRUs and LSTMs have been,
are very close in results.
So in the end it's a trade off on how much
accuracy you want, compared to how much
you are willing to use your resources
on training time and training data.
So here's a quick illustration.
The lower row corresponds to your ht flow,
while the upper row
corresponds to your ct flow.
And both of them are memories and
they interact with each other which means
they are not completely independent.
But they represent different
ways in which your future,
or your next words will be
using your current word.
Yeah, question?
So the question was can you give a little
bit of intuition on what is the difference
between c and h, and so if you see from
the formulae, the edges are present,
or the edges decide on what your
input gates, your fts or ots will be.
So they decide how much you want to
remember or forget or expose yourself.
While your cts are the ones that
are actually being used in the future.
So they are the ones that
are combining with the gates.
And so, basically it's like saying your
hts will decide the fuzzy probability
of how much you want to remember,
and how you want to remember, and
your ct will kind of decide what you want
to remember from the previous states.
This is just like illustration,
it's not exactly like that.
LSTMs might learn something differently.
Depending on your problem statement.
But that's like a rough way of
how you can think about it.
Great, so the question was
will we have the equations.
And, yes, all the equations for
RINs, or LSTMs or GRTs will be there,
so that you don't have to remember them.
Also, you are allowed a cheat sheet, so
to be honest if you wanted to remember it,
just write it on your cheat sheet,
and you can bring it.
So we'll just go to the midterm questions
really quickly because we are running out
of time.
If xt is the 0 vector then ht = ht -1.
It is true that ht will depend primarily
on ht -1 but it won't be exactly equal
because of the non-linearities and
the multiplication with the parameters.
So that's an embodied difference.
The second question is if
FD is very small or 0,
then error will not be back-propagated
to earlier time steps.
Again, intuitively it feels like because
the FD is 0, they are trying to forget.
But that is not true, because it and
ct still depend on ht minus 1, and
hence the error will still back propagate.
So, one easy way to do it
is just look at the mat,
see what depends on what, and see how
the rows are actually back-propagating.
The next question is if either entries ft,
it and ot are negative, and we see
that the sigmoid activation is used, which
is the range is between zero and one.
And so they're always non-negative.
And, as I said, that just
represents the fuzzy probability.
Which brings me to the next question,
can they be viewed as
probability distributions.
And the problem with viewing them as
probability distributions is that they do
not sum to one,
like any probability distribution should.
So these are applied
independently of the element and
thus they have no requirement
of having to sum to one.
So, this is just like
an intuition of probability, but
it's not exactly probability.
Does that make sense to everyone?
Any questions?
Okay.
So, very quickly we'll
go dependency parsing.
So, these are two views
of linguistic structures,
we haven't seen which was constituency
structure, we'll be seeing it for later.
But basically it uses a kind
of c f g model where you
decide which phrase is
broken down into what words.
What we are seeing is
dependency structure,
where we decide what word depends on
what other word in the sentence and
how they depend on each other so
what modifiers are used.
Just some properties
about dependency parsing.
One, it's a binary asymmetric
relation with words.
It's binary, which means two words
are related to each other, no more and
no less.
It's asymmetric, which means one
word depends on the other, but
not the other way around.
In this case,
the dependent depends on the head.
Which are the terms that
we'll generally be using.
And the arrows when you're drawing
the dependency tree will go from the head
to the dependent.
They usually form a connected,
acyclic, single-head tree.
And to make sure that this happens,
we also add a fake root node so
that one of the words will always
have the head as a root node.
And this also makes sure
that every word has a head.
And none of the words are just standing.
And in the rare cases where
you have a disconnected tree,
the root known make sure that all of
them are connected into a single tree.
Any questions?
Okay.
So we saw two different
types of dependency parsing.
One was the greedy deterministic
transition based parsing.
We've just seen this in
the assignment right now so
I am sure it's all fresh in your memories.
You have a stack, a buffer,
and a dependency list.
Initially the buffer will be full of
the words in your sentence, in order.
So that will act like a queue structure.
Your stack will act like
a stack structure so
that you pop from the top of this chart.
And whenever you do this shift transition,
you take something from the top of
the queue and put it onto the stack.
The left toll will take the top
two elements from the stack, and
make an arrow from the first
element to the second element, and
just remove the second element.
And this can be seen
from the example here,
which you can just scroll through
the slides and go like decide.
Now, how do we decide
which transition to use?
This is generally done by some kind of
a classifier, you could use multiclass as
SVMs or any other kind of machine
learning classifiers that you know of.
The features that any machine
learning involves need, so
here we'll use the features, and
you can always add more features.
But the typical features
that are generally used
is the top of the word on the stack,
the first word in the buffer, and
maybe a lookahead on what
words are gonna come next.
And also the dependence of
the current word in the stack.
And now that we have all the words,
we also use the parts of
speech of all these words.
So generally we know that adjectives and
nouns already likely to be dependents or
connector, so that there's something
that you would want to use as a feature.
Yeah, those are kind of what
dependencies that we have
already figured out until now.
And using all of these, we try to get what
kind of transition we want to do next.
And define the valuation metric
that we use is either UAs,
if you're not typing the dependency
from one word to another.
Or LAS, which is the liberal attachment
school which types their attachment from
one word to another, and these
are basically kind of like accuracies.
You can think of them as accuracies.
Okay.
So one thing that we saw
was projectivity and
how we can handle cases where
the non-projectivity comes in.
And what projectivity
means is that there are no
arrows that cross each other when
you put them in a horizontal line.
And why this would be a problem, is if
you go back to this kind of a parsing
mechanism, here the from and who will
never be next to each other on a stack.
And thus, left arc or
right arc will never be able to get
the dependency between from and who.
And, so
how do we handle something like this?
One simple thing would be,
you just declare defeat.
You just say that okay,
these are really, really rare cases.
And if you don't care about
your accuracy as much and
you don't want to complicate your
model a lot, then you can just
leave them as it is and let them
decrease your accuracy a little bit.
If you want to handle them, one of
them would be to use a post resistor.
So you go through the entire
parsing mechanism and in the end,
you use some kind of a post-processor
to identify which ones have
been parsed strongly and
try to dissolve them.
This can be done using multiple methods
like classifiers or other things.
The last one is you use a completely
different parsing mechanism or
you make slight modifications
to the ones that already exist.
So in the greedy transition based parsing,
you could add a transition,
let's say swap where you just swap the
elements that are already in the stacks so
that you bring the element that
is at the bottom to the top and
then you can either lift right down to it.
There are other more complicated ways of
doing it, and those can also be done.
Finally, we have the neural
dependency parsing.
So one problem with really the domestic
parsing that we saw was the features were
all one-hot vectors, where it was
either a word or a part of speech.
And we have seen a lot of problems
with one-hot vectors before.
One is that, you don't have the semantic
representation of the word.
So if two words are actually similar
in either a grammatical sense or
meaning wise, you don't understand digest
because of the one-hot vector notation.
And an easy way to do some,
to solve something like that
is using an embedding matrix.
And here, we'll not only be using
embedded matrix for the words but
also the parts of speech and
the dependency labels.
And all of these are then added into one
feature stack or a feature drawer and
they are put into a black box which
would be any unit that you want to use.
For example, here you are using
a hidden layer and a soft max layer.
But that black box can be any
neural network and then finally,
you use classification to decide
what transition you want to do.
Any questions on dependency parsing?
And I know this was a little quick but
we are running out of time so.
Okay, so there are just a couple
of acknowledgements and
all the best for your exam.
>> [APPLAUSE]